    Anaerobic digestion (AD) has been receiving a lot of attention as an advanced bioconversion technology for the treatment of kitchen waste.Anaerobic digestion is capable of achieving organic waste reduction and renewable energy recovery through anaerobic methane production processes. 
    Studies have shown that optimisation of reaction conditions can greatly increase methane production. However, bridging the gap between laboratory optimisation and engineering applications remains a challenge.
    We combine causal machine learning with traditional machine learning methods to quantify causal interdependencies between variables, enhance mechanistic understanding of the anaerobic digestion process of food waste, and address the challenges associated with transitioning from algorithmic model optimisation to field applications.
    The technical code used in this study is described below. 
    Initially, food waste data for the anaerobic digestion process was collected from a food waste anaerobic digestion plant. From the initial data preprocessing, three machine learning algorithms, k-nearest neighbours (KNN), random forest (RF) and light gradient boosting machine (LGB), were used for missing value filling and data evaluation to fill and select the optimal dataset. 
    Next, we constructed, trained and predicted machine learning models for the intermediate parameters (VFA and TAN) and biogas production performance parameters (methane content and biogas production) in the anaerobic fermentation process of food waste. In this section, seven algorithms from the Scikit-learn library were used for comparison, including support vector regression (SVR), k-nearest neighbours (KNN), random forest (RF), gradient boosting regression (GBR), XGBoost, LightGBM, and CatBoost, we construct, train, predict, and compare the effects of each of the seven models to determine the best predictive model.
    Subsequently, this code performs an exploration of engineering depth interpretability and causality. Firstly, this code uses the SHAP algorithm initially for exploring correlations between all variables and gas production performance parameters (methane content and biogas production). After this, we used EconML for building causal inference machine learning models and causal analysis machine learning models. 
    In the causal inference section, a double machine learning (DML) model was used, which overcomes the influence of confounding variables (impurities) in the machine learning algorithm by classifying the variables to explore the causal relationship between the intermediate parameters and biogas production performance parameters. In the causal analysis section, the causal analysis model used, this is an automated machine learning model for exploring multivariate and multivariate causal relationships, capable of constructing and quantifying complex causal networks between engineering parameters.
    Finally, we develop a counterfactual prediction model for causal machine learning, where we combine DoWhy, EconML and traditional machine learning algorithms to explore optimal engineering thresholds in reverse. 
    This code provides theoretical and technical support from ‘prediction’, to ‘deep mechanism explanation’, to ‘optimal threshold exploration’ for engineering optimisation and intelligent control of kitchen waste biogasification. Technical support.
    The code enables the study of the deep interpretability of food waste engineering in anaerobic digestion. For the first time, a novel causal machine learning framework is constructed to build a system-wide relational network for the anaerobic digestion of food waste, and a counterfactual inference prediction model is constructed to facilitate the comprehensive understanding and optimisation of anaerobic digestion.
